---
layout: post
title: justCTF 2019
---

Introduction
------

Managed to learn a few things from this CTF, thought I would share them here.   

---

Web
------

####Firmware Update

The website is pretty simple. You are able to upload a zip file, and then it gives you a link to download it. Also note, the challenge description tells us where the flag is, "/etc/flag". 

Because I'm a web n00b, I took qutie a while to solve this. If you want the solution directly, you can skip all the way down to the last 2 paragraphs. After inspecting the website, there isn't really anything interesting to be found. Then I experimented around with the upload filename. I realised that It didn't have to be a zip file. As long as it ended with `.zip`, it was a valid upload. This led me to try sending a text file with `cat /etc/flag`, but to no avail. 

Then I tried uploading a file named "cat /etc/flag". However, you can't have forward slashes in filenames. Welp, there goes that idea too. 

I then resorted to google, trying to find previous ctf challenges that exploited a vulnerability from file uploads. Most of them tried to get shell by uploading a php payload. So then I tried doing the same, playing around with wrappers and stuff. However, this yielded no results since the website was returning `application/zip`. At least I learnt how to solve another challeng, although unrelated....

This was when I noticed after uploading a file, they not only told you where it was but also listed other things in the directory. Among these was `example_firmware.zip`. So I downloaded this file, unzipped it and noticed a README.md file among its contents. Hmm... maybe it's related to the message we get when we uploaded all those zip files earlier, "Fail with Readme file!", something which I chose to ignore cause I had other plans (Big mistake...). So I uploaded the example firmware back to the website and indeed, the message is different. 

This time, we get, 
```
Let's look what do we have in README!
$ cat uploads/b4c58259a397dbea07303e2b32e9ab28/README.md
Make sure you agree with firmware privacy policy. Backup data before update!
```

The contents of the README file are being shown. So how do we exploit this... At first, I tried playing around with the filenames such as Readme.md, README.md.php... again no results. Just then I had an idea: what if README.md was pointing to the contents of another file. I remembered exploiting this before at some lcoal conference CTF, more specifically, `/proc/self/cwd`, where the `self` was a symbolic link it's process directory, and `cwd` was yet another symbolic link to the current working directory. 

A quick google tells us how to create these links. We use `ln -s /etc/flag README.md`. To verify this worked, we check with `ls -l` and sure enough, we see `README.md -> /etc/flag`. Now, we just zip the file and send the payload to get the flag. 

Flag: `justCTF{A_Fin3_W4y_T0_Upd4t3_m3_y0}`


Misc
------

####Matryoshka

We are given an image of a matryoshka doll. In case you don't know what that is, it is basically a doll that contains another doll that contains another doll. This suggest there is more to the image than meets the eye. 

Inspecting the image with `exiftool`, we notice that there is a thumbnail image. We can use `exiftool -b -ThumbnailImage` to extract it. This gives us another image, this time, with a smaller doll beside and a fake flag. Looks like we are getting closer. Reapting the steps for 2 more times, we finally arrive at the flag.

Flag: `justCTF{d1d_y0u_kn0w_7h47_f1r57_m47ry05hk4_d0ll_w45_m4d3_129_y34r5_4g0}`