---
layout: post
title: Names
---

### Intro

I was watching a lecture by Professor Harvey Molotch from NYU. He talked about names and the influence society has on them. One of the examples given was on how names rise and fall with time. Such phenomenon can be (partially) explained by the association of names with gender. Names such as Evelyn, Margaret, Stacy, and [more](https://www.ranker.com/list/girl-names-that-used-to-be-boy-names/carlybobarly) are now widely considered as "girl" names, but in fact were once popular "boy" names. However, the opposite doesn't happen. Prof Harvey explained that this was due to a greater level of acceptance from society for a "masucline girl" over a "feminine boy". Once people start associating some level of femininity to certain names, those names no longer socially acceptable for guys. There are plenty of other examples of social forces influencing names from race, ethnicity, geography etc. 

Of course these changes take time, at least a few decades. You probably won't be able to find a guy named Margaret in this day and age, and even if you do, it's probably some old man who has bigger concerns than his name. But hypotetically, if there was a guy named Margaret who isn't super old, he would likely be made fun of for his name, something he has no control over. 

Margaret may blame his parents for his name. But it is unlikely his parents intentionally gave him a girls name. He may have been named after someone significant, or maybe his name has some other significance to his parents. So do you fault the parents of the first female Margaret? It is highly probably that the parents of the first girl named Margaret didn't intend to convert the name into a girl's name. It is more likely a case of preference: "It just sounds nice". 

### Some thoughts

I found this observation quite interesting because I have a unique name. It got me thinking how unique my name was, is, and is going to be. I could be on a rising trend, or a falling trend, or no trend at all. What I do know is my name is considered unisex, which based on the above observations means that it could become a girl's name in the future. Perhaps in our "woke" generation with everyone talking about gender equality maybe gender names won't be a thing. Or perhaps, nothing would change since majority of gender equality debates are focused more on female empowerment. Either way, idgaf. Thankfully, I'm desensitized to anyone that flames my name (Water > Fire). I'm grateful for my name. Its uniqueness has definitely helped me in many ways. 

Another interesting thought I had the social forces at play in Singapore's context. Could it be the growing influence of western culture and religion that we see so many Joshuas and Ethans. Then what about the number of Jun Jies and Jun Kai, how do those come about? 
