---
layout: post
title: Boredom
---
### Intro

With a lack of clear goals for the long weekend, I found myself spending first night after bookout scrolling through youtube. And then I came across [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WEQTrW9NP68&ab_channel=AnswerinProgress) which ironically explained exactly what I was doing. The video explored some very interseting ideas regarding boredom which is going to be the content of this post. 

### Summary of the video

When you google the definition for boredom in google, you get
> the state of feeling bored
Not very useful...

When we say we feel bored, we are often referring to micro-boredom. It the experience of weariness and impatience because we are unoccupied or uninterested in an activity. With our smartphones however, entertainment is limitless. There's there internet and social media to continuously feed information to us. That's not to say you can't get bored. If you ask me to watch makeup tutorials, I'd be bored pretty quick. But with big tech companies and their billion dollar algorithms devoted solely to feed you what you might find interesting, it is no wonder we find ourselves spending hours with our eyes glued to our devices. 

In the video and however, the definition of boredom is slightly different. It is defined roughly as 
> A negatively perceived sense of meaninglessness connected with the disengagement with one's environment. It's the expereince of wanting, but being unable, to engage in satisfying activity. 

Mariusz Finkielsztein (the assistant professor in the video) argues that people are getting increasingly bored with the widespread usage of our smart devices. And if we take boredom to be defined as what he said, we can see why. Not many people can find meaning in scrolling through social media. Content creators might since they always have to stay on trend or risk falling out of fashion. But for the average joe like you and me, we often open instagram instinctively when we have nothing to do. 

This is a boredom that we can't feel. Or rather, we don't associate it with the feeling of boredom. What we feel (or at least what I feel) is a sense of disstatisfaction, guilt, restlessness and lethargy. This is called chronic boredom and it's a miserable feeling. 

### So... What can we do about it?

Well, first we need to recognise it. With the prevalance of social media and the internet, it is unfeasible to ask someone to stay off. Social media has become somewhat of a news source for everything that interests you, so I'd say it is quite important. But we need to recognise when browsing through our feed loses it's meaning. I mean... do you really care about 10 life hacks that you'd probably never use? Or those posts where the last number of your like determines your future? 

The challenge is to resist the urge to open the app when you're faced with micro-boredom, to get yourself out of bed and doing something. For me, the easiest way is to recognise that I am approaching a state of chronic boredom. Knowing that opening the app only brings more misery kinda helps. Once you are able to recognise it, you can began doing something about it. The following suggestions are from [this site](https://effectiviology.com/ennui/#How_to_tell_if_you_have_ennui) coupled with some ways I think are helpful. 

* Goal-setting. Thinking about what you really want to do. What you want to achieve. What you want to learn. Let yourself dream. If you're feeling a little lost, talk to someone (this is also an activity in itself). 

* Talk to people. Humans are social animals. If they mean a lot to you, then takling to them isn't meaningless. And while you're at it, maybe you might find something interesting to do. 

* Exercise. You'd likely be too tired to feel bored. Helps your fitness and health too. This to me is a pretty effective way since exercise kinda clears my head and allows me to refocus.

* Engage in journaling. One of the reasons why I'm writing this now was cause I was bored. 

* Save a list of things you want to do. Thought about a cool idea? Note it down. When you're feeling bored, refer to this To-do list for things to do. With only the weekends to spare for myself, I find it wasteful if I spent it lying on my bed browsing aimlessly (which I have done a few times). Accumulating a to-do list through the week helps occupy my weekends pretty well. 

Lastly, if all else fails, you can just choose to sleep. Can't exactly feel bored if you're unconscious. 